My Story
========

The Setup
---------
My story starts about the time my mom and dad split up, I was about six. Emotionally I was a pretty wrecked kid who grew up into an emotionally wrecked young adult. I didn't have any sense of self-value or self-worth, the divorce sorta stole that from me. I comforted mom instead of being comforted by mom, this is all my six-year-old memory mind you. I listened to her hurts and pains and didn't talk about mine so that she'd be safe. Dad was a different story, I just felt like I never measured up, that he never really wanted to spend time with me; I was inconvenient. He was away, only saw him every other weekend if he didn't cancel.

Growing up, I had a few friends, like the kids on the block that I rode BMX bikes with, even had a girl friend at one time (God's grace to me). But my general experience was that of aversion, ridicule and harrassment. I tried to find worth and value everywhere because I didn't have any sense of it myself. Trying to appear valuable by getting awesome grades only invited kids to use me and cheat off me (for which I almost got expelled!); trying to wear the cool clothes only made me a poser. I sat at a lunch table with kids that made fun of me the whole time because I didn't want to sit alone, even the school counselor thought that I was nuts and offered his services. I smothered the gf after a month, I was so needy. I couldn't stand up for myself, literally had no dignity. I just withdrew further and further into myself, became that loner guy who tried to read cool looking lit books to appear sophisticated so I could think of myself as better than everyone else. I increasingly smoked pot because numbed me to people not caring about me, whatever. It was a perfect set up for the emotional and sexual abuse I experienced at the hand of an older man when I was 18, I mean, I didn't think I was really worth anything. I was a mess.

But God was pursuing me.

Hound of Heaven
---------------

It's three weeks before I'm set to start at UIUC, and I'm celebrating at the wedding of some friends, Tom & Charity Osborne. I had abandoned my buddy's car dead and unstartable on I-88 somewhere around DeKalb and hitchhiked the rest of the way. I had no extra clothes, no cell phone (it was 1995, man!), very little money. Tom & Charity were Christians I had met a few years prior. A handful of their friends drove out to the car with me and tried to start it after the party was over. As we watched the sun dawn, we figured we'd try the next day. A young church friend of theirs let me stay with him. Next morning, he lent me some of his clothes, fed me breakfast. Tom's church gave me $200 to get the car out of impound, freely. I spent the next three days there due to the car in the company of these kind, generous and loving folks.

I was exposed to a lot of church stuff growing up; school, extra meetings, summers at a Christian music festival some of you remember Cornerstone, youth rallys. In all those years, God planted little bits of knowledge in me like so many puzzle pieces that I didn't know how to put together entirely. I had picked up some rudimentry knowledge of Jesus, that he was the Son of God and died on a cross to forgive my sins. Along the way, though, someone told me something else about Jesus; that He wanted me to surrender my whole life to him, not just tell him what I was doing bad and have him clean up the mess; he wasn't a get out of jail free card I could use to live my life any way I wanted to. Forgive my sins? Sign me up! Surrender my life...? Not so much. You mean, stop smoking pot? Ask God what I should do about daily life? Maybe He wants me to give up all my posessions to the poor and live as a bum! Can't do that. And there was something inside me that knew that forgiveness was only the other side of the surrender coin and the two were inseperable.

That weekend, the generosity of these people who hardly knew me, their conversation with each other about daily life revealed a God who is personal and cares, not off in some lofty distant cloud disappointed in me. The way they prayed was entirely different, it was filled with hope and passion, like it really mattered. Their faith was authentic, not bolted-on. I wanted to be like them, I wanted what they had, I loved what I had been experiencing and wanted more. That weekend, God put all those puzzle pieces together and the wall keeping me from surrendering, from giving Jesus full access to mewas broken. I told one of those young dudes what God had shown me and that I wanted to invite Jesus to be my everything.
